Okay, now if I'm you, give us your opinion of the
protest movement, the people involved with them,
and any legacies that may have resulted from these
movements and these people. All right. Several
changes were brought about as a result of the
protests. Changes in housing, changes in
university regulations. I cannot detail any of
those from memory, but there's more openness in
admissions for all students and efforts to
attract
minority students. The university, from where
I've observed it, They've spent time and money and
effort to try to get a better mix in the enrollment,
and of course then they've struggled with the
problem of enrollment keeping on climbing. It was
24,564
when I went there, and it's now more than 50,000
students. they would like to get them down below
that, but
they can't do it. The president making a speech at
the retired faculty staff meeting a few years ago
in which I was in attendance said that the regents
are wanting to limit enrollment, they're wanting
to lower the enrollment, but the very people that
that furnish the support for the university are
people that want their kids and their friends'
kids to keep getting into the university. So it's a
sort of a vicious circle or cycle. They have to
fight on the basis of that. But thinking about the
climate, the educational climate, the racial
climate, The economic climate that existed in 64
and on into the 70s and a little bit into the 80s, I
guess, it was just right and right for protests for
change, for a call for change. And I think that some
of the things that the, and I'll use the word,
dissident students, some of the students that
were unhappy with the military
and governmental and collegiate
complex. There were some things that needed to be
looked at the total picture and make some changes.
And I think that the university wouldn't have made
some of the changes to it if there hadn't a catalyst
that pushing and that the students hadn't gained
enough ground for their voices to be heard. And
student government at the university has always
been a pretty activist group, but it never was as
active as during the years that that the SDS had a
good bit to say.
I would have to leave it to the chroniclers of the
period writing for the university, and Dr.
Margaret Berry is the person that's done more in
writing and preserving the history of the
University of Texas, and she would be a fine person
for you to contact and ask for any comments she may
have or information she may have that would help to
strengthen this. But I think that it would be
ludicrous to say that the movement wasn't
positive. It had some negative elements involved
in it, but it was for some good causes and changed
the need to be made. And of course, in an
organization the size of the university, it takes
a pretty active, noisy minority to get things
done. And this was the catalyst and the nucleus
around which a lot of students and I have been asked
about the percentage, and I don't know. I have to
say that there was not mass demonstrating on the
campus. There was masses there a time or two
demonstrating for Cambodia and for Kent State,
but the others were just chipping away and getting
the attention of the university administration.
I think when the period is written up and
remembered by the historians, it won't be a dark
period on the campus of the university. It will be a
light period. where some changes were made that
ought to be made for an enlightened community such
as UT. So from my perspective and point of view and
position as a staff member there, I think the
protest was a necessary thing.